Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

Milestone 1
Specifications
Due: 11:55pm (AU/Malaysia), Friday Week 6
Your project
By now, you have all been assigned a project, which you are going to develop using the
SAFe methodology. You should be in the process of being assigned to:
• an agile team within the project
• a speciality group, either
– Agile Release Train Engineers (RTE)
– Product Management (PM)
– Systems Architect (SA)
Everyone is essentially a developer first, with a specialty role on the side, with every
team member having a specialty role. This means there will be multiple RTEs, PMs and
SAs inside each agile team as well as across agile teams within the project. We
recommend 2 RTEs, 2 PMs and 1 SA for a team of 5.
This milestone
This is a short milestone spanning 4 weeks from week 3 to week 6. The usual
timeframe for a milestone would be 6 weeks. There will be two important events
where you will be coordinating and running the session:
●​

PI planning meeting (Week 3 workshop)

●​

End of PI presentation(Week 6 workshop)

The focal point of this milestone would be creating important process and design
documentation prior to actually beginning software development as well as setting
up your development environment. You will be primarily assessed on the deliverables
as outlined below as well as individual contribution to each document.
Each project should only have one set of deliverables hence you should be working
across your groups to facilitate this. All these deliverables are essentially live
documents which means they will probably need revision as the project progresses.

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

In preparation for this milestone, we will be running a planning session during week 3
(of your regular scheduled workshop) for the first Program Increment (PI). If you are
unfamiliar with PIs, please brush up on the definitions available in the SAFe framework
documentation. There will be a few deliverables that will require some progress even
before the planning session so please read carefully.
Before Week 3’s PI planning meeting
The Agile Release Train Engineering team is responsible for:
●​ Developing (and documenting into the PMP) a plan for running the week 3
program increment (PI) planning session, and running the planning
session, a template can be found under week 2 on Moodle, we expect this
to be heavily modified to fit for your purposes
The Product Management team is responsible for:
●​ Creating a Program Backlog with example user stories(user stories can be
fake for now, the idea is to understand the structure)(ClickUp)
The System Architecture team is responsible for:
●​ Creating a Potential Solution Architectures (PSA) document exploring the
options of software technologies available to build the solution and
communicating them to the project members. This does not include
detailed design of every single module; that would be premature. It should
only house suggestions.
During Week 3’s PI planning meeting and until Week 6
The Agile Release Train Engineering team is responsible for:
●​ Developing more on the project-wide Project Management Plan (PMP)
based on SAFe but making clear the specifics relating to your particular
solution
●​ Developing a preliminary version of the Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) in
your program
●​ Developing a project-wide Risk Register (SAFe doesn’t provide much
explicit guidance on how to do this, so consider what you’ve done in past
units and consult your lecturers)
●​ Proposing and implementing a Work Breakdown Structure (Google sheet
that will track who is responsible for which tasks for each sprint)

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

The Product Management team is responsible for:
●​ Developing the Project Roadmap (This is a high level document of what
features your project aims to achieve at certain points in the year)
●​ Communicate with the client and relay objectives to rest of the project
team
●​ Developing preliminary solution-level nonfunctional requirements (NFR)
as described in the SAFe website and documenting them in the QAP
●​ Ensuring each Agile team has their Program Backlog (low level individual
tasks) and iteration goals for the first iteration
●​ Ensuring each Agile team completes their PI Objectives/Backlog Tasks for
the first PI
The System Architecture team is responsible for:
●​ Determining and documenting potential advantages, disadvantages and
risks of each architecture in the Potential Solution Architecture (PSA)
document
●​ Developing a Technology Tutorial Plan which involves creating spikes(a
spike is a technical term for the simplest possible program to understand
the basics of any technology) for your team be able to understand the
basics of React, Meteor, MongoDb or alternatives as well as documenting
the execution of said spikes
●​ Developing a plan for managing the Git Workflow to standardize the
processes for working with the GitHub/Gitlab repository for the entire
project team (which obviously also relates to quality assurance and hence
should be part of your QAP)
Each of these three task sets is going to require consultation with the other specialty
teams, so you will be expected to coordinate with them and ensure that your proposals
are workable. Furthermore, everyone must participate in the PI planning session in the
week 3 class, and you will be assessed on your active contribution to that.
Note that many of these artefacts are preliminary. That means we recognize that they
are likely to change over the course of the project – as we all come to understand the
project and refine the requirements and the technological and organizational
challenges, we will undoubtedly change our minds on some things.

End of PI presentation(Week 6)
At the end of the first PI, students are expected to do a system demo. The demo is a
critical aspect of the PI learning cycle for the Agile Release Train (ART). This event

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

allows stakeholders, customers (or their internal proxies), and senior management to
view the progress that the Agile Release Train has made during the PI.
We understand that this is the first PI, and different projects have different levels of
complexity in terms of setting up, so we expect very little coding to be done by now.
During the end of PI presentation, the Agile Release Train will present their
accomplishments for the entire PI. Clients and stakeholders review the progress in the
broader solution context. Think of it as a Sprint Review Meeting for SAFe. Your system
demo should draw some inspiration from the description on the Scaled Agile
Framework website here.
In the process of completing your first PI, you will have undoubtedly discovered that
some things didn’t go so well and could be done better. Some of these can be handled at
the team level, others will need to be handled at the program (project-wide) level.
Teams are responsible for documenting the outcomes of their team-level
retrospectives, including any team-level actions to be taken. It is generally expected
that each team will identify at least a couple of team-level improvements - if you can’t,
the FIT3170 staff will expect a strong justification as to why your process cannot be
improved further!
To summarise, please prepare some Google Slides covering the following:
RTEs
●​ Project background
●​ Communication channels and management processes, what worked and
what didn't(e.g. Sprint duration or meeting times)
●​ Run through of deliverables and when to use them
PMs
●​ Present Project Roadmap
●​ Current State of Program Backlog
●​ High Fidelity Mockup of Solution
SAs
●​ Chosen Technology for project(and why alternatives weren't chosen)
●​ Git management strategies
●​ The planning and execution of spikes
●​ Screenshot of commits from multiple members on a fully setup repository

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

We do not expect any live demonstration of working software as it is early in the
semester, however we do expect to see some progress, such as a screenshot of
commits to a fully set up Github repository.
Presentation Feedback Form
Everyone needs to fill in a feedback form during the week 6 PI presentations. You will
only need to rate other projects, not your own. More details will be included in the
form, which will be available on the Moodle Assessments Tab during the presentations.
SAFe Role Peer Assessment Form
We understand that working with a large group can mean that potentially everyone
has differences in opinions of ways things are done. The purpose of this unit is to
understand how to work together in a team effectively using battle tested processes.
An important part of that is understanding who is contributing more and
acknowledging that as well as who could use a pick me up in terms of project
contribution.
To facilitate this, a compulsory peer assessment form for this and all future milestones
where we expect you to rate the contribution of your peers, and this rating will carry
weight for your peers. This form also carries weight for being filled out so if you do not
complete it, you will lose marks! This milestone we will rate everyone in our Role
subteams as majority of the teamwork will be conducted by roles, but next milestone
we will be rating those in our Agile Subteams.
These forms will be available under the Moodle Assessments Tab.

What to submit
Outline of deliverables:
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​

Project Management Plan (PMP)
Quality Assurance Plan (QAP)
Risk Register
Project Roadmap
Potential Solution Architecture(PSA)
Technology Tutorial Plan
Program Backlog(Non document based)

Note: Project team is referring to the big team with up to 15 students, whereas agile
subteam is referring to your smaller teams of 4-6 students.

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

Your entire project team(not agile sub teams) should submit 2 items, comprising:
1.​
2.​

A zip file containing PDF versions of the documents outlined above.
A Google Sheet which contains the Work Breakdown Structure.

For non-document based deliverables, you will need to ensure that all markers have
access to your shared Google Drive, Clickup board, and any other online system that
you are using to organize your project. Failure to share these artifacts with your
marker will lose marks. The accounts you must share with are(add only the mentor for
your project and our lecturer):
Clayton
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​

Xiaoning Du, xiaoning.du@monash.edu
Ian Felix, ian.felix@monash.edu
Riordan Alfredo, riordan.alfredo1@monash.edu
Adrian Kristanto, adrian.kristanto@monash.edu
Zhiming Deng, zhiming.deng@monash.edu
Baaset Moslih, baaset.moslih@monash.edu

Malaysia
●​

Shamala Maniam, shamala.maniam@monash.edu

Late submissions
If you do not ask to be marked late, you will be marked on a snapshot of your
repositories taken at the due date and time. You may request late marking by emailing
the staff.
If you would like an extension, you will find information about the requirements and
process at https://www.monash.edu/exams/changes/special-consideration. Click on
the “In-semester task” tab and open the “Information Technology” section for a link to
the correct form.

Marking criteria
When marking your submission, your marker will take into account:
• Correctness of understanding of client’s requirements
• Sufficiency of documentation
• Clarity of documentation

Monash University

FIT3170 Software Engineering Practice

• Presentation – spelling, grammar, readability
• Extent of your contribution to the project
You will receive detailed feedback within two weeks of the due date unless your team
is granted an extension. Note that we do not have a page limit of the report, but making
it compact and precise is courtesy.

Penalties
If the team requests late marking and has not been granted an extension, a late penalty
of 5% per working day will apply.
Although all students in a team will receive the same mark on group tasks, if there is
evidence that the distribution of workload in the team is unfair, then we may penalize
students who do not appear to be pulling their weight or overly ambitious students
who do work assigned to others leaving nothing for them to contribute.
Penalties may also be applied for breaches of the academic honesty policy.

